Now there's one last thing
related to reusable workflows,
and that would be outputs.
Of course, you cannot just accept inputs,
but instead your reusable workflow might be doing something
that should be passed back to the Workflow
that called this reusable Workflow.
If you think of reusable Workflows as functions,
then inputs are the arguments you pass to them
and outputs are the return values.
And you do add outputs
by adding the outputs key
under the Workflow call event name.
And then here you can add your outputs,
for example an output named result.
Give it a description,
where you could say the result of the deployment operation
and you provide the value.
And the value of course is typically taken
from the steps in one of your jobs.
For example, here, let's assume we would really be uploading
the content here.
Of course, this upload could fail.
Now in that case, we might want to set result here
to a value like failure
or to false or whatever.
To do that I'll add a new step here,
which I'll name, set result output
and in this step, I will run a command
and echo this special set output command we learned
about earlier in the course.
Remember I taught you about setting outputs
and steps and using those outputs.
Now we're doing the exact same thing
just in this reusable Workflow,
but we still use the colon, colon set output command
in conjunction with echo in a run instruction.
And then here we specify name
and then equals the name of the output
we want to use, for example, step dash result.
And then two colons,
and then the value that should be stored in that output.
For example success,
you can also wrap this between single quotes,
but you don't have to.
So now the string success would be stored
in a step output named step dash result.
Now to use this output here
as output for the reusable Workflow,
I will first of all,
make it an output of the overall job here
by adding outputs to this job.
And that's what we did earlier
in the course already.
And that actually belongs to the deploy job,
so it should be nested inside of deploy.
So here I add outputs, the outputs key to this specific job,
and then here we could have a name of outcome.
We could also use result here
but I'm already using result up here,
and to make it clear which output belongs to which part
to which step or job, I'll use outcome here.
And then here we use a dynamic expression
and we access our steps
and we give this step an ID set dash result for example
so that here we can access steps dot set dash result
dot outputs and then access the step dash result output
step result because that's what I'm also using down here.
So now with that,
we're getting the output that was set in this step
and we're making it an output of this deploy job,
an output named outcome.
And now we can reference this outcome output
in our overall workflow output.
For that, we go to outputs in our Workflow.
And here under value we use another dynamic expression.
And here we use the special jobs context object
which of course is another officially supported
context object for reusable workflows only as you see here.
And this allows us to get the output of the deploy job.
So here I named this job deployed.
That's why I'm using deploy here as well.
and then the outputs of that job
and then in my case outcome.
So now the output of this deploy job the outcome output
is the result output of this Workflow.
And therefore in the Workflow
where we use the reusable Workflow
we can get this output and use it.
To use it we could add another job,
print deploy result
or anything like this
and run this on Ubuntu latest
make sure that it needs to deploy job
because this should run after the deploy job finished.
And then here I'll just add one step print deploy output,
where I simply echo
and then the result of some dynamic expression.
And here I want to access the needs context object
Which gives me access to the job I'm depending on
and then here I need the deploy job,
that's the only job I depend on here,
but I could be depending on more jobs,
that's why we have to specify the job ID here.
And then we access the outputs of that job,
which of course are the outputs of the reusable Workflow
in this case.
And then in my case here, I named the output result
so here I also access result.
Now with all that done, we have a chain of outputs
and we can therefore now create a commit
where I say added outputs and push this.
And now again, the reusable Workflow will be used
by our Workflow,
by this Workflow here.
And you will see that in this print deploy result job here
we should successfully print the result set
by the deploy job.
And the deploy job uses this reusable Workflow
where the output is set to the string success.
So we should see success being output here
in print deploy result.
So let's wait until we reach this job
and until it's completed.
Here we go, it completed.
And if we take a look at print deploy output
we see that there success was output as expected.